🗃 dek - the decorator-decorator 🗃
======================================================

``dek`` decorates your decorators to diminish defects and drudgery.

Writing a Python decorator which takes no parameters is easy.

But writing a decorator with parameters requires three nested levels of
function and offers several opportunities for error - and more work
if you want to decorate classes like ``unittest.mock.patch`` does.

``dek`` is a decorator for decorators that does this deftly with a single
tiny function.

EXAMPLE
---------

Write a decorator ``print_before`` that prints a function's arguments with an
optional label before it executes.

Without ``dek`` all is confusion:

.. code-block:: python

    import functools

    def print_before(label='label'):
        def deferred(func):
            @functools.wraps(func)
            def wrapped(*args, **kwargs):
                print(label, args, kwargs)
                return func(*args, **kwargs)

            return wrapped

        if callable(label):
            return deferred(label)

        return deferred

``dek`` handles all the boilerplate:

.. code-block:: python

    import dek

    @dek
    def print_before(pfunc, label='debug'):
        print(label, pfunc)
        return pfunc()


For finer control over function signatures there is deferred mode:

.. code-block:: python

    @dek(defer=True)
    def print_before(func, label='debug'):

        def wrapped(foo, bar):
            print(label, foo, bar)
            return func(foo, bar)

        return wrapped

NOTES:

`This article <https://medium.com/p/1277a9ed34dc/>`_ talks more about
decorators that take parameters and about ``dek`` in general.

For your advanced decorator problems, the PyPi module
`decorator <https://github.com/micheles/decorator/blob/master/docs/documentation.md>`_ does not duplicate duties that ``dek`` does, but does
pretty anything else you could conceive of in a decorator library.

API
---

``dek.dek(decorator, defer=False, methods=None)``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

(`dek.py, 85-229 <https://github.com/rec/dek/blob/master/dek.py#L85-L229>`_)

Decorate a decorator so it works with or without parameters and
can decorate all the members of a class.

ARGUMENTS
  decorator
    The function being decorated

  defer
    Switch between "simple" and "defer" modes

  methods
    What to do with class methods when wrapping a class

dek has two modes, simple and deferred.  Simple mode, the default,
is less work but offers less control.

In **simple mode** the trivial decorator, the decorator that does nothing,
is trivial to write:

.. code-block:: python

   @dek
   def trivial(pfunc):
       return pfunc()

In this mode, ``decorator``'s first argument is ``pfunc``,
a ``functools.partial()`` which bundles the original function together with
its arguments.

Decorators with parameters aren't much harder:

.. code-block:: python

   @dek
   def print_before(pfunc, label='debug'):
       print(label, pfunc)
       return pfunc()

   @print_before
   def do_stuff(a, b='default'):
      # do stuff

   do_stuff(1)
   # also prints 'debug do_stuff 1'

----------------

In **deferred mode**, ``decorator`` is a function that returns a function
that does the work.  This is more code but more flexible.

.. code-block:: python

   @dek(defer=True)
   def trivial(func):
       def wrapper(*args, **kwargs):
           return func(*args, **kwargs)

       return wrapper

   @dek(defer=True)
   def print_before(func, label='label'):
       def wrapper(foo, bar):
           print(label, foo, bar)
           return func(foo, bar)

       return wrapper

--------

The ``methods`` parameter describe how classes (as opposed to functions or
methods) are decorated.

* If ``methods`` is ``None`` then classes are decorated like any callable.
  If ``methods`` is _not_ ``None`` then classes are not decorated.

* If ``methods`` is a string, then only methods whose names start
  with that string are decorated (which means that if ``methods`` is
  the empty string, that all methods are decorated).

* If ``methods`` is a callable, then only methods that return true when
  passed to the callable are decorated.

* If ``methods`` is ``True``, then only public, non-magic methods - methods
  whose names do *not* start with ``_`` - are decorated.

* If ``methods`` is ``False``, then methods are not decorated (and neither
  is the class).

(automatically generated by `doks <https://github.com/rec/doks/>`_ on 2020-07-15T12:00:02.300119)
